====== McNeel Training Overview ======

McNeel offers a variety of training options that included on-site, online and custom.
With the exception of custom, McNeel training is based on our training guides. The training guides are not tutorials but class notes to accompany the instructor-led training. 
You can prepare for the class by downloading the eval software (if you do not already have it), reviewing the outline and manual for your class. By doing this, you will be well on your way to learning Rhino before taking training.

Helpful Links:
Current Training Schedule
[Rhino 5 Level 1 Training Outline]
Rhino 5 Level 1 Training Guide
Rhino 5 Level 2 Training Outline
[[http://www.rhino3d.com/download/rhino/5.0/Rhino5Level2Training/|Rhino 5 Level 2 Training Guide]]
Please email Jody Mills jody@mcneel.com with any questions.
When and Where You Need Training
Classroom
McNeel conducts monthly hands-on training classes for Rhino software at our training facility in Seattle, WA – Fremont district, just west of the University of Washington.  Classrooms are limited to 12 students with each student assigned his own workstation. Classroom training is three full days.  
Classes run from 8:30 AM  to 5 PM EST. Training classes are conducted by McNeel certified instructor are held in Miami, Barcelona and other McNeel locations world-wide throughout the year. Localized training is also available in Europe and Asia. In addition, many ARTC and ART offer training world-wide. McNeel also offers on-site and custom training at additional cost for travel and custom curriculum development. See the complete training schedule here.
Online Training
McNeel also offers internet training for Rhino users via distance learning technology that makes you feel like you are sitting right next to the instructor.  While there is no substitute for classroom, in-person training, the convenience of internet training is unrivaled. It can be a great way to using Rhino, Grasshopper and Brazil in a convenient and cost effective way.  
Videos of each session are posted to a private vimeo album. Videos can be streamed for up to 3 months or downloaded on your computer for indefinite use.
Anytime – Anywhere Training
With online training, you can learn Rhino at your own schedule and your own pace, from the convenience of your desktop or mobile device. Online session are recorded and uploaded for you to review and build skills after the training has ended. Instructor-led training classes include videos that you can stream or download.
Because the online classes are recorded you can start a training session at any time. Just sign up for the next session, and email Mary Fugier mary@mcneel.com . The typical cancelation policy is 48 hours or 2 days before the orientation session. If you waive the option to cancel, you can get the videos of the previous training session immediately for no additional charge. This gives you immediate on-demand training. 
Online training is also an outstanding option because you can prepare for the live training with the videos, attend the live training, and download video also of the live training session. All three options for the cost of one online training class!
Time Restrictions
In addition, you are not required to be available for every online training session. You may need to arrive late, or leave early; the online training format can accommodate your limitations. Since the sessions are recorded, and in most cases
Internet training can also be a good idea for existing Rhino users who wish to explore a Rhino add-on they have not used in the past. 
View the current online training schedule

Custom Training
McNeel also offers custom training for you and your group. Training can be offered as:
•	On Site
•	McNeel Classroom Seattle or Miami
•	Online with GoToTraining
Please contact Jody Mills jody@mcneel.com 206-545-7000 for cost and schedule/availability.
FAQ
Here is a link to the Rhino 5 Level 1 Materials.
Here is a link to the Rhino 5 Level 2 Materials 

Also here are some sample videos of our on-line training:
McNeel On-line Training Samples
password: Test (with a capital T)

Having some idea on how it works but not having used, would Level 2 be appropriate? I´d like to reach a good level to manage the tool properly or at least knowing that I can use it well enough.  
Level 1 is in July and Level 2 in August.  Level 2 assumes Level 1 proficiency. So download and review the Level 1 and Level 2 materials above, and see which one best fits your current skill level.

I´m looking for an online course in the next few months.  Is there a possibility to start the course a little bit sooner? 
If you register for the Level 1 and/or Level 2 class, and waive the option to drop, we can release the videos from the previous class for your study and preparation. You will get the videos from the previous class, the live class and the videos from the live class. The videos are posted to a private video album for you to steam or download to your computer.

My connection to Internet is not good at the moment but would like to know if I could watch the on-line sessions later on if I were to have troubles.  
Yes, all sessions are recorded and posted for streaming or download from a private vimeo album.

Would you provide the link to download the version that is going to be used in the Rhino class?
We use Rhino 5 in all our training, both classroom and online. You can use the Rhino 5 for Windows Eval - 25 save, no time period expiration. 

Can I use the MacRhino beta for the training?

The MacRhino OSX is not acceptable for a Windows Rhino class, and Rhino 5 for Windows is not acceptable for a MacRhino class. Also Windows emulators, like VmWare and Parallels is not a supported Rhino platform and is generally not adequate for training. 




Let me know if you have any additional questions.
Sincerely,
Mary Ann Fugier
McNeel Technical Support
Seattle, WA
