====== Rhino Vs. Fusion ======


Obviously, each software is going to have its advantages and its lacking points, but there are several problems with Fusion if you're more of an organic type of designer. I had the appreciated opportunity to take a certification program for Fusion through TechShop in Pittsburgh, PA, but as a long-time Rhino user the switch between the two programs meant I had to change the way I think and design pretty comprehensively.  It's been a while since I designed an object within the program, but these are the impressions that stuck with me.

1. I missed the command bar. Designers tend to memorize certain commands they use on a frequent basis - no such thing in Fusion.

2. Everything is done in hierarchies. It's like the most left-brained programmer that ever existed decided to organize everything in the way he would design. This may actually work well for a lot of people but this kind of structure does not play well with the way I think. Rhino has its own layers system where the the designer is encouraged to create layers for specific objects but Fusion forces you to do it. You can't just click on something and edit it. In Rhino, you can just create a layer, hide it, reselect whatever is in it later with one command and do whatever you wish to the object without having to click on several different hierarchies and mode requirements until the program allows you to what you need to do. In Fusion, you have to go within the hierarchies to go within those hierarchies until you find the object and its correct create or modify mode. 

3. The modes confused me. You have modes like Create, Modify, Symmetry and Sketch - it locks you into doing only one thing at a time which frustrates the daylights out of me, frankly. If you decide you want to add a curve while you're in Sculpt mode you have to go back and click and click some more until you get to Sketch mode - I'm sure it's a learning curve that one gets through in time but it's a whole different ballgame than Rhino.

4.  They don't really have viewports - you have to click on either X, Y or Z planes to start constructing your object from there.  After you finally figure out how to design something using all four viewports at once, the paradigm shift can really be a wrench in your process. 

4. There are two aspects that Fusion does trounce Rhino in - the fact that the construct plane commands are all in one sector is really useful. For a beginning user to have these more intermediate level commands spelled out while being grouped in an obvious manner is invaluable. Also, their Assemble mode allows you to place joints the software creates itself to define what will happen when you piece two parts of a design together:  you can modify your object to get the results you want with minimal effort because you have an animation that shows you exactly how your objects will interact. It's an awesome feature I would love to see in Rhino. 

So yeah, you can't just click on a point in Fusion and work from there -it's all about hierarchies. If you're more organically minded (honestly, I'm all over the place) you may find it really frustrating to work in Fusion despite some of its amazing features. I also don't like having to sign into the cloud to get my program working - but that's another story. 

Aviva Fort
ARTC Candidate

